_publications/2024-09-01-DDI-number-1.md, before:

---
title: "Predicting Drug-Drug Interactions Using Heterogeneous Graph Neural Networks: HGNN-DDI"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-11-20-hgnn-ddi
excerpt: 'This paper explores the use of heterogeneous graph neural networks (HGNNs) for predicting drug-drug interactions, advancing precision medicine and pharmaceutical research.'
date: 2024-11-20
venue: '4th International Conference on Signal Processing and Machine Learning'
paperurl: 'https://www.ewadirect.com/proceedings/ace/article/view/13968'
citation: 'Hongbo Liu, Siyi Li, Zheng Yu. (2024). &quot;Predicting Drug-Drug Interactions Using Heterogeneous Graph Neural Networks: HGNN-DDI.&quot; <i>4th International Conference on Signal Processing and Machine Learning</i>.'
---

This paper presents HGNN-DDI, a novel framework leveraging heterogeneous graph neural networks to predict interactions between drugs. It demonstrates significant improvements in accuracy and reliability, offering potential applications in precision medicine and drug development.

Commit message:

Update publication details and abstract for HGNN-DDI paper
Revised the venue and citation to reflect publication in 'Applied and Computational Engineering, Volume 79'. Expanded the abstract to include methodological details, such as the use of ChemBERTa, RDKit, and a multi-modal HGNN framework, and clarified the clinical relevance of the predictions.

_publications/2024-09-01-DDI-number-1.md, after:

---
title: "Predicting Drug-Drug Interactions Using Heterogeneous Graph Neural Networks: HGNN-DDI"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-11-20-hgnn-ddi
excerpt: 'This paper explores the use of heterogeneous graph neural networks (HGNNs) for predicting drug-drug interactions, advancing precision medicine and pharmaceutical research.'
date: 2024-11-20
venue: 'Applied and Computational Engineering, Volume 79'
paperurl: 'https://www.ewadirect.com/proceedings/ace/article/view/13968'
citation: 'Liu, H., Li, S., & Yu, Z. (2024). Predicting drug-drug interactions using heterogeneous graph neural networks: HGNN-DDI. <i>Applied and Computational Engineering, 79</i>, 77–89.'
---

This study presents a novel approach to predicting drug-drug interactions (DDIs) using heterogeneous graph neural networks (HGNNs) augmented with attention mechanisms. In the proposed framework, drugs and proteins are represented as nodes within a heterogeneous graph, where edges encode drug-drug, drug-protein, and protein-protein interactions. 

To capture chemical structure information, we leverage *ChemBERTa*, a pretrained language model that processes SMILES representations of drugs. Similarities between drug structures are quantified using RDKit. The HGNN model integrates multiple biological modalities—chemical structures, drug-protein interactions (DPIs), and protein-protein interactions (PPIs)—to learn richer node embeddings.

A Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) classifier is employed to predict the type of interaction between drug pairs, producing probability scores for each potential DDI. The model improves prediction accuracy by incorporating complementary biological data and offers interpretable outputs that are valuable for pharmacovigilance and personalized treatment planning.

These predictions can aid healthcare professionals in evaluating the safety and efficacy of drug combinations, especially for patients with complex or evolving medical conditions.
